Interesting Fact of Each Country Whisky Production

	Scotland:
		Scotland is a famous whisky production country and Scotch Whisky often called "Scotch".
		Scotch Whisky is always spelled without the 'e'. In order to be officially called Scotch whisky:
			A) The spirit needs to mature in oak for at least three years
			B) Production and maturation must take place in Scotland. 
			C) Single malt Scotch whisky must be made from 100% malted barley.
		Today Scotch whisky is divided into 5 categories:
			1) Single-Malt: Made from 100% malted barley in one distillery
			2) Single-Grain: Made from malted barley and mixture of grain in one distillery
			3) Blended malt Scotch Whisky: Blend 2+ single-malt Scotch whiskies from different distilleries
			4) Blended grain Scotch Whisky: Blend 2+ single-grain Scotch whiskies from different distilleries
			5) Blended Scotch Whisky: Blend 1+ single-malt Scotch whiskies with 1+ single-grain Scotch whiskies from different distilleries
		Regions:
			1) The Lowlands: Southernmost region of Scotland, famous for triple distillery method (Increases the alcohol content but leaves the final whiskey lighter)
			2) Speyside: Region along the River Spey, 50% of all Scotch is produced here.
			3) Campbeltown: On the Kintyre Peninsula on the West Coast of Scotland
			4) Islay: Island across the West Coast of Scotland
			5) The Highlands: The remaining area of Scotland, the largest whisky producing area, over 30 distilleries in the area,

		Typical character:
			Speyside: Smoky and deeply complex with hints of apple, nutmeg, and vanilla
			The Highlands: Peaty, honey, dried fruit, robust and dry body
			The Lowlands: Floral tones with notes like toffee and cinnamon, lighter body
			Islay: Powerfull wallop, piety, smoky, earthy taste with a touch of salty seaweed
			Campbeltown: Sweet and savory, smokey notes jostling with fruit, toffee, and vanilla

		Notable Distilleries
			Speyside: Johnnie Walker, MaCallan, Glenlivet, Glenfiddich
			The Highlands: Wolfburn, Ben Nevis, Glenturret
			The Lowlands: Glenkinchie, Bladnoch, Auchentoshan
			Islay: Bowmore, Lagavulin, Laphroaig
			Campbeltown: Glen Scotia, Springbank


Reference:
wikipedia
scotchexperience
https://www.bespokepost.com/the-post/the-distinctive-flavors-of-scotlands-five-scotch-regions


	Ireland:
		Irish Whiskey is always spelled with an e – this is a key difference between Irish whiskey and Scotch whisky.
			Irish whiskey uses little or no peat, so there is usually no smokiness in these whiskies. 
			Irish whiskey may contain a distillate of malt, a barley distillate and a portion of grain spirit.
			Most of the Irish whiskeys distilled three times.
			Like Scotch whisky, Irish whiskey must be matured for a legal minimum of three years.
		Typicaly Irish Whiskeys character are complex, aromatic, smooth, slightly sweet

	United States:
		BOURBON
			Bourbon is American whiskey that has been made from a minimum of 51% corn with rye and malted barley. Examples of bourbon include Jim Beam and Wild Turkey whiskey.
			Bourbon is a very small area of Kentucky where bourbons were originally produced, but since 1964 American law has stated bourbon can be made anywhere in the USA.
			In Bourbon whiskey, the residue from the pot still is mixed with the mash to create a ‘sour mash’ whiskey.
			Distillation of bourbon usually takes place in a column still and then a pot still, but sometimes only column stills are used – Woodford Reserve operate a triple distillation in pot stills.
			Bourbon spirit is always matured in new fresh oak casks at least two years, which are charred to yield more flavour.
		RYE WHISKEY
			Rye whiskey is made in the same way as bourbon, but is made up of 51% rye. Examples of rye whiskey include Wild Turkey Rye and Jim Beam Rye.
			Rye whiskies send to be spicier in character.
			Tennessee whiskey is made in the same way as bourbon, but it is charcoal mellowed before maturation.
	Japan:
		Japanese whisky came into being in the 1920s. It was inspired by Scotch whisky – Scottish academic institutions trained the first whisky makers of Japan. This means that the process of making Japanese whisky is very similar to Scotch whisky production, however Japanese whisky has no legal minimal maturation period.
		Most blended Japanese whiskies do use an amount of Scotch malt whisky in their composition – usually this is aged over five years old.

	France:
		The first French whisky produced in 1987. Now there are over 40 distilleries in France. Famous French distilleries locates in Brittany, Lorraine, and Champagne. French are the largest consumers of whisky in the world, especially Scotch.

	Belgium
		Two famous Belgian distilleries are Belgian Owl and Goldlys. Belgian Owl are typically young, fruity, vanilla, and little wine almost. Goldlys typically have some peat, silky smooth flavor. 

	Finland
		Finnish whisky was first distilled from 1981 to 2000 by state-owned alcohol monopoly Alko, then Finish whisky is dominated by Panimoravintola Beer Hunter and Teerenpeli Distillery and Brewery. The typical Finnish character is nutty malt.

	England
		There are currently at least six distilleries producing English whisky. The typcial English whisky is apple, cream, and clove.

	South Africa
		South Africa is a fast-growing producer in whisky and they make whisky the same way as Scotland. The typical character of South African whisky is butterscotch, toast, and vanilla.

	India
		Almost all of the whisky produced in India made from fermented molasses (That taste similar with rum). Indian single malts are made in the same way as Scotch, except it is produced in India. Indian barley mostly grown in the north side of India. One distinguishing features of Indian single malts is the aforementioned use of 6 row barley rather than traditional 2 row is used elsewhere in the world. The unique spicy flavors provided the special character to Indian whisky. Barley for peaty whisky is imported from Scotland. However, the biggest challenges are faced with warmer climates in India.

	Canada
		Canadian whisky are blended with multi-grain whisky with a large percentage of corn spirits. They are typically lighter and smoother. Canadian whisky can have added color, and can contain up to 9% wine or other spirits. Typical Canadian whisky character is toffee, cinnamon, and toast.

	Netherlands
		The first Dutch whisky was bottled recently in 2007. Zuidam is the only Dutch distillery in the Netherlands.

	Sweden
		Swedish whisky's unique flavor comes from the its unusual woods used for maturation. Some whiksies are funky, you may expect a lot of unusual but suprised flavor from Sweden whisky.

	Taiwan
		Kavalan Distillery is the first and only distillery in Taiwan. It established in 2005 and is named after the indigenous Kavalan people in Taiwan. Not long after the distillery established, its whisky received 3 awards in 2012, 2015, and 2016.

	Australia
		There are more than 120 distilleries in Australia, 31 of those are in Tasmania. Tasmania has almost everything you need to make a good whisky including water, barley, peat. The typical Australian whisky character are vanilla, oak, and apple.